Hello, everyone.
NOTE CONF
Can you hear me?
All right.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Good stuff.
NOTE CONF
Welcome to the revision lecture.
We have a fairly big room, so if you wanted
NOTE CONF
to, I would encourage you to come, like, closer.
But you don't have to.
NOTE CONF
You don't have to.
Yeah, you can hear me as well.
NOTE CONF
I can hear how loud I am.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the way this is going to work, we have
prepared with the input of the piazza form and some
NOTE CONF
other input, some various examples, And you're also free to
ask questions about other things as well.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, but yeah, I'll be so I'll be I'm Erica,
I'll be leading this first hour and this.
NOTE CONF
Is I'm Kasia.
I'll be leading the second hour.
NOTE CONF
The first and second hour is going to be very
similar depending, but it depends.
NOTE CONF
If people have particular questions to ask, then it will
change a little bit.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So that's some good to everyone.
NOTE CONF
Straight if you want to ask.
No I think we'll do first example first and then
NOTE CONF
we can then we can take questions because then we're
kind of in.
NOTE CONF
Sure okay.
So I'm just going to find it.
NOTE CONF
Whoops.
Aha.
NOTE CONF
There we.
Go.
NOTE CONF
That's better.
And.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we have our first question.
NOTE CONF
And this is just a slightly modified one from one
of the quizzes.
NOTE CONF
So we have an n by n matrix and we
have a non-zero vector.
NOTE CONF
And then we have that this equation axe equals b
has a unique solution.
NOTE CONF
And we are asked how many solutions does the equation
axe equals zero have.
NOTE CONF
So if you were to be confronted with this kind
of question, which I guess you all have, and it's
NOTE CONF
been in one of the quizzes, well, how would you
start it?
NOTE CONF
It's a very big lecture theatre to be interactive, but
don't be scared.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
well, one thing that we can do right is that
NOTE CONF
we can just do doo doo doo doo.
We can start by letting V be the unique.
NOTE CONF
Factor and r n such that.
A v is equal to v.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And so this one we know that it's unique.
NOTE CONF
And since we're asked to solve this equation look at
the number of solutions.
NOTE CONF
Well we can just introduce a vector u.
So let you be a solution.
NOTE CONF
Two.
A u equals zero.
NOTE CONF
So now we need to somehow leverage this information that
we have.
NOTE CONF
And what we know about are matrices.
The kind of linear operations that they induce.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Is that they well they're linear right.
NOTE CONF
So does anyone have any kind of hunch on this
question what the answer should be, how many solutions this
NOTE CONF
equation should have.
Do we have okay.
NOTE CONF
Can we have a show of hands for no solutions.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Unique solution.
That's a fair number of people.
NOTE CONF
Infinite amounts of solutions.
Okay, we have a few people.
NOTE CONF
So the consensus seems to be that it has one
unique solution.
NOTE CONF
And indeed, with the algebra, sort of what we can
do right is that we can use the linearity and
NOTE CONF
we can write a now of well, we already wrote
a V and a you.
NOTE CONF
What's left?
You can do a u plus b.
NOTE CONF
And you use the linearity.
So this is a u plus AV.
NOTE CONF
And now we can use what we know right.
A b is equal to b a is equal to
NOTE CONF
zero.
So we get zero plus b equals to b.
NOTE CONF
But what does this all mean.
Well, it means that.
NOTE CONF
You plus V is a solution.
To.
NOTE CONF
Axe equals b.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And so wit this information in hand.
Is it now going to be unique as it's somehow
NOTE CONF
clear.
Because so what we what would happen right.
NOTE CONF
If we had an infinite amount of solutions U to
our equation here.
NOTE CONF
Well what would happen is that then we have shown
that we would have an infinite amount of solutions To
NOTE CONF
our equation axe equals b here, but we assume that
this one was unique.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we already know that this one, this vector, it
NOTE CONF
simply has to be v.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Because that was the only solution.
But if this is equal to v so what do
NOTE CONF
we have.
We have u plus v c equal to v.
NOTE CONF
Fairly simple equation.
Oh no.
NOTE CONF
Okay so we'll scroll down.
Um fairly simple equation.
NOTE CONF
You must be zero.
Now this is a very abstract and algebraic approach to
NOTE CONF
it.
So so what would you do.
NOTE CONF
Right.
If you looked at this and you're just like, how
NOTE CONF
how do I even do this?
Where do I even start?
NOTE CONF
Well, one thing that you can always do when we
have.
NOTE CONF
If I scroll back up.
You've got a question on the second screen.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah, I could.
That is wow.
NOTE CONF
So when we have these general efficient.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um r m and r n as well here, what
we could always do is we could just let m
NOTE CONF
equals n equals two to make our problem simpler.
So I'll just make a little line here to denote
NOTE CONF
that this is now a new one.
So what would we have then.
NOTE CONF
Well we would have that our linear transformation goes from
R2 to R2.
NOTE CONF
And the benefit of this is that I can draw
R2 reasonably well.
NOTE CONF
I can maybe draw R3, But not that well.
So what we can do then is if we slide
NOTE CONF
this all the way up, we can have a look
graphically.
NOTE CONF
At what happens.
So I'll draw two copies.
NOTE CONF
Of our two.
And now I'm going to input some stuff here.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to put my B here.
I'm going to assume that it looks something like that
NOTE CONF
maybe.
And then I'll put in my V the vector that
NOTE CONF
maps to B.
And we'll say it looks something like that maybe.
NOTE CONF
So we have our map here between them.
To and it takes the vector v to the vector
NOTE CONF
b.
And now the second thing that I'm going to do,
NOTE CONF
I'm going to mark the origin in red here.
And I'm going to take draw r u.
NOTE CONF
Which is getting mapped to the origin.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So here this is one corresponding to to this equation
right here.
NOTE CONF
And so what we can observe here now is that
I have drawn a U that is not the zero
NOTE CONF
vector.
Right.
NOTE CONF
This is this is not the zero vector.
And so we can see kind of like what happens.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because we always know I'll go back a bit because
NOTE CONF
when we look at the solution right x equals zero
is always a solution to this thing no matter what
NOTE CONF
we have.
And so if the solution is unique, it has to
NOTE CONF
be the zero solution.
So but because I don't know exactly how to proceed,
NOTE CONF
I am going to say that it's a non-zero vector.
And then I'm going to see what kind of trouble
NOTE CONF
I find myself in.
And from that, see if I can kind of gain
NOTE CONF
some intuition about why it should have a unique solution.
And so we have a map and it's linear.
NOTE CONF
And what does this mean.
Well you had some properties right.
NOTE CONF
That you can scale things and that you can add
things.
NOTE CONF
But one thing that is going to do is that
it's simply going to take lines to lines.
NOTE CONF
So you goes to the origin.
And in fact the entire line.
NOTE CONF
Right here is also going to be mapped to the
origin.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because we're just having we're saying that a U is
NOTE CONF
equal to zero.
And so that means that a of two is equal
NOTE CONF
to t, a u is equal to t times zero
is equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
So this entire line is going to end up getting
mapped to the origin.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So what does this mean for the solutions to axe
NOTE CONF
equals b i.e. what vectors are going to be mapped
to b.
NOTE CONF
Well I'll draw another one.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I'll draw this one here.
And I'll call this one here w and it's just,
NOTE CONF
it's just u scaled.
Maybe I should actually call it.
NOTE CONF
I'll call it properly, like a scaling of you.
So I'll call it like.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
You say okay and let's see how much space do
NOTE CONF
I have?
I have a bit of space.
NOTE CONF
So then what can we observe?
We can observe that.
NOTE CONF
Uh oh.
Right.
NOTE CONF
No, that's the one that I wanted to name you.
I'll, I'll, I'll do it in orange.
NOTE CONF
So we have this vector here, right.
I'll call it w.
NOTE CONF
And we have w is equal to s u plus
v okay.
NOTE CONF
So then a of w is equal to a of
s u plus v.
NOTE CONF
And here again we can use linearity.
We have a Su plus AV.
NOTE CONF
And what do we know?
We know that AV is equal to B.
NOTE CONF
We know that A of s u is equal to
zero.
NOTE CONF
So we have zero plus b equal to.
B.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have that this vector here the blue one
NOTE CONF
also gets mapped to the vector b.
And so it's no it's not unique anymore right.
NOTE CONF
Because being a solution right.
That the solution is unique means that only one vector
NOTE CONF
can be mapped onto the vector p.
But it's not only that we have one additional one
NOTE CONF
here because there's nothing unique about this like Su, I
can scale it differently.
NOTE CONF
So I can do that one.
I can do that one.
NOTE CONF
Well, okay.
It's just imagine that all of these are like the
NOTE CONF
vector v.
My drawing is not that good.
NOTE CONF
And so what's going to happen is that this entire
line here is going to get mapped to the vector
NOTE CONF
b.
So because we have infinite solutions here to the axe
NOTE CONF
equal to zero, this line here we also get this
line with infinite solutions to um axe equals b.
NOTE CONF
So that hopefully a nice illustration about like how you
could gain some intuition about that.
NOTE CONF
I have been talking for quite a long time now.
So are there any questions on this example so far?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
I thought this.
NOTE CONF
Was the unique solution.
Why have we shown that?
NOTE CONF
Oh right.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
So so the question was like we assumed that it
had a unique solution.
NOTE CONF
Now we provided an infinite amount of solution.
What was the point of all this?
NOTE CONF
And very good point.
So the point of all of this was to have
NOTE CONF
you be a non-zero vector, and then seeing that everything
breaks down right when we let it be the, the
NOTE CONF
non-zero vector, which would give us more than just a
trivial solution, that is x equals zero here.
NOTE CONF
Then everything kind of like breaks down.
And so kind of what we done, we done kind
NOTE CONF
of like a proof by contradiction.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So we suppose that.
So what we've done is that we assume that you
NOTE CONF
are.
Is it you not equal to zero?
NOTE CONF
Also under n solves.
A you equal zero.
NOTE CONF
And we have shown that this implies that there exists
infinite.
NOTE CONF
Solutions two.
To this one.
NOTE CONF
And so our conclusion.
Is that you will equal to zero is the only
NOTE CONF
solution to this equation.
Axe equals zero.
NOTE CONF
Does that answer the question?
I already forgot who it was that raised their hand.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Good stuff.
NOTE CONF
Any other questions?
And also any of the questions that you'd want us
NOTE CONF
to go over at this point.
Anything particular you want to cover?
NOTE CONF
Because we have a load of examples to do, but
if there's anything in particular anyone wants, we can do
NOTE CONF
that as well.
No specific requests.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Well then I'll just do the example that I like
NOTE CONF
to most.
If I can find it.
NOTE CONF
Assuming that you're taking it, you'll see these methods of
proof like proof by contradiction properly in next semester.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah.
Any questions about subspaces.
NOTE CONF
So basically spanning is that all these.
Are.
NOTE CONF
Subspaces and spanning okay.
Uh so we have one question here that we can
NOTE CONF
do.
It doesn't have span but we can do one on
NOTE CONF
that as well later.
Um so oh yeah.
NOTE CONF
We can just move this here immediately and have this
one available for.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have the following question.
NOTE CONF
Are any of the following subspaces of R3.
So what do we have.
NOTE CONF
We have some kind of some kind of plane here.
Some kind of weird parabola thing here.
NOTE CONF
and.
Well, I think we'll get to them, uh, in turn.
NOTE CONF
So we'll just start with the, the first one.
Um, so we'll do a poll like we did right
NOTE CONF
with the previous one.
So everyone who believes that this is a subspace of
NOTE CONF
R3.
No one.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Everybody believes that this is not a subspace of R3.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the consensus is very clearly that it's not a
NOTE CONF
subspace.
And does anyone want to explain why it's not a
NOTE CONF
subspace.
Why does it not believe.
NOTE CONF
Oh there we go.
It doesn't go through the origin.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have a fairly quick solution here.
NOTE CONF
The origin does not belong to you.
So Q is not a sub space.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Now we move on to this second set here, and
NOTE CONF
I'll do the same thing.
So who believes that this is a subspace?
NOTE CONF
No.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Who believes that?
It's not a subspace?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We have a lot of hands.
NOTE CONF
So the consensus is clearly that this is not a
subspace.
NOTE CONF
And can I have a reason for why it's not
a subspace?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Even the.
NOTE CONF
So it's not linear okay.
So I would like that to to make that a
NOTE CONF
bit more precise.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Because we have three axioms that it needs to satisfy.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Going through the origin we have the right the linearity.
So you mean the additivity, right?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So what we can do right.
To see this is I'm just going to draw the
NOTE CONF
um let's see what how does that is that explain.
So let this be the z axis.
NOTE CONF
I'll let this be the x axis.
And then you can imagine kind of the y axis
NOTE CONF
coming out of the page.
So what do we have.
NOTE CONF
We have a parabola.
And right so this is RV.
NOTE CONF
So do you have any concrete suggestions for which two
two vectors to add up so that they're no longer
NOTE CONF
in the set.
So the sum is no longer in the set?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
200.
NOTE CONF
001.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And the other one.
Okay, 200.
NOTE CONF
So we have our example points.
And now, uh, where would these be on the diagram.
NOTE CONF
So let's see.
So it would be.
NOTE CONF
This would be here right.
And this one would be here.
NOTE CONF
So these ones are the vectors already.
Don't lie on the subspace.
NOTE CONF
Oh, no, it's completely fine.
Um, I would rather like this is the.
NOTE CONF
I hope that this is a safe space to, like,
make mistakes.
NOTE CONF
Because making mistakes is how we learn.
Like, when I took this courses, a literal ton of
NOTE CONF
mistakes that I did.
And that's how we learn.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we still make them now all the time.
Oh, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Even on material like this, it's still easy to make
mistakes.
NOTE CONF
Even, like, we literally like, we we spent time before
this one going through the calculations of every example, because
NOTE CONF
we are not confident that we will get the calculations
correct on the spot.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Not necessarily.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So going so I need two new vectors.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Just take any two symmetric vectors in the parabola and
NOTE CONF
add them up and the sum is in the z
axis okay.
NOTE CONF
I mean take one in this side and another in
the other side, like the reflection of it.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So you're saying like take something like 101 and visualise
NOTE CONF
it.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Mhm.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Let's write down the vectors first and then we'll draw
them.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So we'll just uh.
NOTE CONF
On one side and the reflection on the other side.
Mhm.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So if we choose this point for example like and
NOTE CONF
I just choose it because it's uh, I like my
numbers as simple as possible.
NOTE CONF
And you'll have to excuse me that my parabola is
slightly deformed.
NOTE CONF
So it's, you'll just have to imagine that this is
like one one and the coordinates.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then you said for the second one, we
just mirror it in the z axis and we go
NOTE CONF
Here.
All right.
NOTE CONF
And then when we add them up, I'll draw the
arrows as well.
NOTE CONF
It might be a.
Bit crowded.
NOTE CONF
But.
When we add them up.
NOTE CONF
How about that.
We've fallen outside our set.
NOTE CONF
And so now we immediately jump to the adding stuff.
Um, axiom.
NOTE CONF
But just as an observation, right?
We could also have used the fact that scalings need
NOTE CONF
to be, um, contain like still on the line because
example.
NOTE CONF
For example, if I take a point here, right, this
whole line.
NOTE CONF
Should be on and a subspace if it is a
subspace.
NOTE CONF
But clearly it's not.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
All right, so what about now?
The last one.
NOTE CONF
So now we have this, um, set w, uh, where
y squared is equal to z squared.
NOTE CONF
So we'll do the same thing.
Um, can we have a show of hands for the
NOTE CONF
people who believe that this is a subspace?
One two.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And now can we have a show of hands for
NOTE CONF
the people who believe that this is not a subspace?
All right, so here we have a bit more disagreement.
NOTE CONF
And so I think for this one we'll do the
same thing.
NOTE CONF
And I'll I'll draw it out in a similar fashion.
Uh, except that I'm going to let, I'll keep this
NOTE CONF
as a z axis.
And now I'll let this be the y axis.
NOTE CONF
And you can imagine the x axis going out of
the screen towards you.
NOTE CONF
And so what is this set going to look like.
Well we can if we write our equation wow z
NOTE CONF
squared is equal to y squared.
So an obvious solution to this run rate would be
NOTE CONF
said equals y.
As there are another solution to this equation I heard
NOTE CONF
z equals minus y.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And are there any more solutions.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So no no more solutions to this one.
So we have equivalence between these two.
NOTE CONF
And so what does it look like?
Well, this right here is a line, right?
NOTE CONF
It's this line in fact.
And this one here is also a line.
NOTE CONF
It's this line.
So this is our set W.
NOTE CONF
And with it drawn like this I think I'll, I'll
do the polling one more time.
NOTE CONF
So who believes that this is a subspace.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Who believes that this is not a subspace.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So some people who, um, some people have had a
change of heart.
NOTE CONF
And I believe that this is not a subspace.
So why would this not be a subspace?
NOTE CONF
It's not closed because.
011 and means or one way is what we call
NOTE CONF
home.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So you're saying that essentially we have a similar situation
to last time.
NOTE CONF
Like if I pick something here and I pick another
vector here.
NOTE CONF
And I add them, I fall outside the set.
So the thing that I'm going to encourage you to
NOTE CONF
do in general, which linear algebra, and I hope that
has been a clear theme so far, is to make
NOTE CONF
drawings where you can write.
And we've seen that even when you're given very like
NOTE CONF
general spaces like R2 and R2, then we can do
our little toy example with setting them both to two
NOTE CONF
just to see how things behave.
One thing that I wanted to observe about this one
NOTE CONF
before we move on is that oh, I forgot to
put the that.
NOTE CONF
It's the third one.
Is that this one will satisfy two of the axioms.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And we do have that zero is in the space.
NOTE CONF
And we also have that if v is a vector
in W then this implies that TV is in w
NOTE CONF
um for all t in R, right.
Because the only thing that can happen essentially is like
NOTE CONF
when I chose my vector v, it is on one
of the two lines.
NOTE CONF
And then when I scale it while I stay on
the line.
NOTE CONF
But as you pointed out, it still isn't closed under
addition.
NOTE CONF
And so it's not a subspace.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, are there any questions on on this one?
No.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, then I think we can move on to a
NOTE CONF
span question.
Do you have a good question for that?
NOTE CONF
I've got one here as well.
You did?
NOTE CONF
Oh, yeah, I yeah, if you have one good there
then.
NOTE CONF
Um, is it that one based on the previous one?
Oh, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, I might do the one with the.
NOTE CONF
So.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So here I.
Am, I think.
NOTE CONF
Well, in that way.
Yes, but I want to take, take this opportunity to
NOTE CONF
do the other one that I wrote down, but I
didn't write it down.
NOTE CONF
So we'll have a fun time with writing down the
question as well.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so we'll move this.
And so here we're going to have two subspaces.
NOTE CONF
We're going to have.
And V or no u.
NOTE CONF
Let's do a little u.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Where q is in R3 and we have v.
Where v is some arbitrary vector.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so which of the following.
Are true?
NOTE CONF
You as a subset or subspace of V.
V is a subspace of U.
NOTE CONF
He was not equal to V.
He was equal to V.
NOTE CONF
Oh, and it all fits.
How about that?
NOTE CONF
All right.
So I guess maybe we'll start with number four.
NOTE CONF
So are these going to be equal?
And we'll do the same I think.
NOTE CONF
Uh, just a show of hands for people who believe
that they will be equal.
NOTE CONF
No one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Who believes that they will not be equal?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Significantly more hands.
So why should they not be equal?
NOTE CONF
Do we have any reasoning for as to why?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
And they don't have to be prosecuted separately.
For example.
NOTE CONF
Or one day or one.
And.
NOTE CONF
One would be.
Uh, one.
NOTE CONF
So your example is, uh, is.
That you would be like.
NOTE CONF
Oh, we will be a different one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Zero.
Uh, and then something else.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I'll do a simple 101, one then.
NOTE CONF
We'll spend all of our time, but one will understand.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So.
NOTE CONF
So the claim that we have is that, um, we
don't necessarily have that you is um.
NOTE CONF
Or.
Well, maybe we'll do that.
NOTE CONF
We don't necessarily.
Hmm.
NOTE CONF
I don't know if I'm spelling this word correctly, but
hopefully the.
NOTE CONF
Vibe is there.
Yeah, the vibe is there.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Not necessarily.
NOTE CONF
Equal to V, and this is the counter example that
we were given.
NOTE CONF
So then we would have span.
Oh, I'm, I am very much sorry.
NOTE CONF
There should be spans here.
Because that was the whole point of this question.
NOTE CONF
Right.
That we're going to be dealing with spans.
NOTE CONF
So just imagine that you was the span of these
things V is a span of these things.
NOTE CONF
Um, so right.
So then you would be span of 110.
NOTE CONF
101.
And T101.
NOTE CONF
And v would be equal to span.
110101.
NOTE CONF
And 011.
And then it was pointed out that this should be
NOTE CONF
equal to R3.
And so what did you say about the C2.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So it will be it will be a plane.
NOTE CONF
So you're saying that one of these vectors is going
to be redundant right.
NOTE CONF
So for example like you have defined this third vector
right.
NOTE CONF
So that it's simply a scalar of this one so
we can eliminate it.
NOTE CONF
and we have.
Thus this is equal to the span.
NOTE CONF
110101.
And so we have the span of two vectors.
NOTE CONF
So we have a plane.
And then for v we have these three vectors.
NOTE CONF
And so what was your reasoning for choosing the third
vector.
NOTE CONF
What did you want for for this vector right here.
In this case we know that the dimension of x.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So so basically what they said is that, um, if
NOTE CONF
this vector here is linearly independent of these two, then
it's going to span all of our three, right.
NOTE CONF
Because then we have three linearly independent vectors.
So they're going to form a basis of R3, which
NOTE CONF
means that every single vector in R3 can be written
as a linear combination of them, which means that every
NOTE CONF
single vector in R3 is included in the span.
And so we conclude that it's equal to R3.
NOTE CONF
And clearly those two things are not equal.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So now another question.
Uh, moving on to the other thing.
NOTE CONF
Do we necessarily have that these are different.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we'll do a polling again.
So will these necessarily be different.
NOTE CONF
Show of hands for those who believe so.
Now on okay.
NOTE CONF
Show of hands for people who believe that they can
be equal.
NOTE CONF
All right.
That's a decisive majority.
NOTE CONF
So what is your intuition?
Why and what situation could these end up being equal?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
If the vector u is equal to the vector v
NOTE CONF
on the inside, it means that the spans are made
of the same vectors.
NOTE CONF
So.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So you're saying if we have u is equal to
v then.
NOTE CONF
We're going to have the span 110101V.
And v is equal to span.
NOTE CONF
110101V again.
And so yes.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because then we even have that our lists are identical,
NOTE CONF
right?
They are completely identical.
NOTE CONF
And so they would have to be um, and so
clearly the, the span has to be equal as well.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So could I have a different counter example where u
NOTE CONF
is not equal to v.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Use the multiple of v.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So so in that case we would have TV here.
And so then the question is how can we conclude
NOTE CONF
that these are equal.
Well clearly.
NOTE CONF
T.
V is equal to t times v.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we know that.
NOTE CONF
Um let's see what I want to have.
I wanted to be in that.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So then we have that TV is in the span.
NOTE CONF
Of V.
And oh but this is interesting okay okay.
NOTE CONF
Can I take any T here.
Let me just talk to you.
NOTE CONF
As long as it's not zero.
Right.
NOTE CONF
What what goes wrong if it's zero zero.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So you're saying that if we had, um, v equals
to zero, well, then we would have.
NOTE CONF
Oh no, t equals to zero.
Whoops.
NOTE CONF
Then we would have u is equal to span.
See, I just wrote down V is equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
This is the kind of nonsense that we still still
do at our ripe old age.
NOTE CONF
And we have zero times v here.
And so like you pointed out, redundant factor whereas v.
NOTE CONF
Oh yes.
Span 11010.
NOTE CONF
101 and v.
And so are these two.
NOTE CONF
Will going to be equal.
Um, can I have a show of hands to this?
NOTE CONF
Are these going to be equal?
Everyone who agrees with that statement hand up.
NOTE CONF
No one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
Are they not going to be equal?
NOTE CONF
Right.
I can't remember if I said the same thing twice
NOTE CONF
now.
Um, so the thing that I wanted to to note
NOTE CONF
right here, um, is that they are going to be
different, right?
NOTE CONF
Unless what?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
So.
I was going to say they can be, uh, you
NOTE CONF
can be an.
Independent, off to represent yourself.
NOTE CONF
You don't have to be the same.
Every person in both sets of linearly independent, but all
NOTE CONF
three of them.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So so here we had a very good, um, good
input.
NOTE CONF
And I think we'll just hold that and get to
it after this.
NOTE CONF
So, so now I want to look at these two
sets specifically.
NOTE CONF
So I have uh, you in this case is the
span of these two vectors 110 and 101.
NOTE CONF
And we eliminated that one because it was redundant.
And v is equal to the span of 110101 and
NOTE CONF
v.
And so could it happen that these are equal.
NOTE CONF
If v is zero.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So.
Equal if and only if v is equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
But then I, I heard a very, very interesting thing.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Which is um, that if we let V be different
from you and.
NOTE CONF
V110101.
Linearly independent and U110.
NOTE CONF
Well 101.
Linearly.
NOTE CONF
All right.
No, there was no point.
NOTE CONF
There was there was no point to this.
Um, so in this case.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Um, it was pointed out.
NOTE CONF
So if let's see it, remember the names.
So this was you, this was V, um, that if
NOTE CONF
this is the case, then span V is equal to
R3 and span u is equal to R3.
NOTE CONF
Which means that you is equal span.
U is equal to span v.
NOTE CONF
All right.
There is more.
NOTE CONF
We can say in the previous case, if we go
back to what we did before.
NOTE CONF
Because what did we assume that we assumed u is
equal to v.
NOTE CONF
Right.
This is how we should.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I mean for here.
So we assume that, uh, u was t times v.
NOTE CONF
But did we assume that, uh, u and V will
be, uh, independent of the previous two vectors in the
NOTE CONF
span?
That is a good question that we do that.
NOTE CONF
I don't believe we did.
Did we?
NOTE CONF
Just select.
It.
NOTE CONF
Should this be an F?
1 or 2.
NOTE CONF
That's exactly what I'm getting at.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So if I want to do my if and only
if.
NOTE CONF
I have to do.
This.
NOTE CONF
Span A110 and.
101.
NOTE CONF
That's the one.
Hopefully it's a ball.
NOTE CONF
I'll.
Move it a bit like that.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So, so in order to have the if and only
if we need V to be in the span, because
NOTE CONF
then again, what is it that happens?
These redundant and we can eliminate it and still have
NOTE CONF
the span being the same.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So we're nearing the end of this revision lecture.
So are there any final questions.
NOTE CONF
You entirely welcome to stay for the second half is
the second hour as well.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
All of the.
NOTE CONF
Parts were like necessarily always true.
That are right.
NOTE CONF
So that that is a nice little wrap up.
Um so what.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
What can we conclude.
NOTE CONF
Um, so we said that like this one does not
necessarily hold this one does not necessarily hold.
NOTE CONF
Um, and now For these ones.
What we have seen, right, is that one of them
NOTE CONF
has to hold.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Because all of our examples were they were made to
be different.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Was when we had that one of them.
NOTE CONF
That.
Oh okay.
NOTE CONF
We'll do this one then.
So all of the ones where they were different was
NOTE CONF
when one of them was the entire space, and one
of them.
NOTE CONF
Was the plane given by 110101.
And so you could convince yourself maybe after all of
NOTE CONF
these examples, that these are in fact the only two
possibilities for them not to be equal.
NOTE CONF
And so what can we conclude?
Well, we can conclude that you as a subset of
NOTE CONF
sub V or these a subspace of view.
So we don't we don't have any of the one
NOTE CONF
items.
But we can like if we put a little more
NOTE CONF
here then we can do this.
At least one of those have to hold.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
But I think that we will end it there.
So thank you very much for attending and good luck,
NOTE CONF
everyone on this synoptic quiz.
Did you get a lengthy like a five minute break?
NOTE CONF
Essentially.
Then?
NOTE CONF